Hi there.
This is the Ramona La Rue.
And welcome back.
Let's now look at the second version of the method, which we briefly discussed at the very end of the
last lecture.
This is the first version of the collect method and it takes three parameters and performs a mutable
reduction.
And the three parameters are supplier accumulator under combiner.
And in this particular example, we are concatenating strings.
Under the very end.
We also looked at the second version of the collect method, which is a simplified version that takes
a single parameter and also performs a similar operation of string concatenation.
The second version returns a string, whereas the first version returns a string builder.
So to get a string, we just need to invoke the two string method on the returned string builder.
So the second version is taking a single parameter and it is called as a collector.
So collectors are joining is going to return this collector.
Collector is an interface in the Java string package which we know represents the stream API.
So collectors are joining would return an instance of the collector interface and collector interface
has a bunch of methods and the collect method would invoke those different methods in the collector
instance in order to perform the mutable reduction.
And those methods would return expressions that are similar to the method arguments which we see here
in the first collect method.
So in the first collect method we see a supplier, accumulator and a combiner.
Similarly, the collector also has certain methods which would return a supplier, accumulator and a
combiner.
And collector also has a couple of more methods.
And here the collectors class is essentially a helper class and it is helping in performing some predefined
reductions.
So joining is a predefined reduction, which is essentially about concatenating strings.
So that's a predefined reduction.
So joining would return an instance of collector which would perform that particular predefined reduction,
which is string concatenation.
Similarly, there is a method called tools which we have seen in one of the earlier lectures.
And it returns a collector instance that would help in collecting the stream elements into a list.
And in the next lecture, we will actually see it in action.
So although we have seen it earlier, we are going to look at it one more time.
And there are also other methods in the collectors class.
So those are all static factory methods which would return different collector instances for performing
different reductions.
And here is the syntax for the two methods.
The first one is taking three parameters.
The second one is taking a single parameter collector.
And now let's look at these type arguments here.
T, A and r r is the container.
So that's what is being retained.
He is the type of the input stream element.
On a here is the accumulator type.
So in our string concatenation example, a would be string builder because that's the container into
which we are accumulating and A is not present in the signature of the first method.
And that's because Accumulator itself is part of the method signature itself.
So it is a second parameter.
And so we do not explicitly have the type argument a anywhere within the signature of the first method.
And now let's look at the collector interface itself and collector as we just saw, as the method parameter
of the second version of the collector method.
And Collector is essentially a reduction operator and it helps in performing mutable accumulation of
stream into a container.
That's what the collect method does and collect is using the collector in order to do that.
And like I said earlier, it has a bunch of methods.
And one of them is a supplier method, which would help in creating the container which we are supposed
to retain.
So the supplier supplies the container.
So there is the method for this and it returns an instance of a supplier functional interface.
We will look at the return types shortly.
And we also need an accumulator which accumulates the stream elements into the container.
So this particular method would be invoked repetitively in order to perform the accumulation.
Then there is a combiner which would combine to resolve containers, which would be the output of two
different segments.
And this, we know, comes into play when we are dealing with parallel streams.
Finally there is something called Finisher, which, as the name implies, finishes the reduction and
it can optionally transform the container object into something else.
So we have the container, but sometimes we might want to transform that into something else.
Like for instance, the container could be a string builder, but we would want to output a string.
So in that case, that particular transformation logic would go into this particular method.
So this method will allow us to do that transformation.
And in many cases there may not be any such transformation, in which case the container itself will
be returned.
And these are the type parameters which we have seen earlier, D, E and r d is the type of the stream
element and A is the accumulator type.
In our example, it would be String Builder and R is the return type.
And this is what the supplier method returns.
It returns an instance of the supplier functional interface and the correct method would use the supplier
in order to create a new container.
And here it is, a supplier of a because we are going to create a container which is of type A like
the string builder.
Our next is Accumulator.
Accumulator is a by consumer and it takes two parameters.
One is the result container itself and the other is the stream element P so p would be accumulated into
the container.
So we have the consumer here and we know that consumer by consumer has a single method called accept,
which returns a void.
And that is fine here because we are going to simply mutate the input container by accumulating the
stream element into the container.
The Combiner window combines to resolve containers, so we need a binary operator.
So the combined method would return a binary operator and the correct method would use the binary operator
in order to combine the two result containers.
So it is going to combine two A's and generate another A.
Unfinished year, as we said earlier, is used to transform the container into something else.
So it would transform the container, which is of type A into R.
R would be the final output.
And as we said earlier, sometimes we need to transform the container object into something else.
And in some other cases we do not need any such transformation, in which case R and A would be same.
So that's the character.
And all of these methods are part of the collector interface and the collect method would invoke them
and that's how it's going to perform something similar to the first version of the collect method.
In the first version, we are explicitly specifying the different objects that we need in order to perform
the mutable reduction.
Now we spoke about the collectors class and we said that the collectors class would help in performing
some typical predefined reductions.
So these are the typical collections that can happen.
So we have the collection, which means that we would like to collect the stream elements into something
like a list or a set.
And so there are some dedicated methods for that.
Similarly, we might want to group the stream elements into a map so we have methods for that, and
we might want to reduce or summarize the stream elements.
So we might want to reduce the stream elements into a single value, or we might want to summarize the
entire stream elements.
And there are some dedicated methods for that.
For instance, here, in order to perform the collection kind of operations, we have these methods
to list, to set and to collection.
So these methods we are going to look at in the next lecture.
And so we are going to have a bunch of lectures.
And in each of those lectures we are going to explore the different methods that fall under these different
categories.
If we want to group the stream elements into a map, then we can use these methods like to map grouping
by and partitioning by, grouping by can be used to perform more complex level groupings.
So for instance, to map can be used to generate a key and a value pair with grouping by the value can
be more complicated so we can have something like a list or a set as a value and partitioning by is
used to group the stream of elements into two groups.
And these are the methods that fall under reducing and summarizing and they are self explanatory Macs
by is used to find the max element among the stream elements.
Summing end would be used to sum the elements of the stream.
So for instance, if the stream elements, if they have some numeric field and if we want to add those
numeric values across all of the stream elements, then we can make use of summing, end and averaging.
It is similar to summing, but it would perform an average on summarizing and would generate a summary
object.
And that summary object will have a bunch of summary fields which would summarize the stream elements.
And the summary fields can be something like some average maxima or minima.
And joining we have already seen it is used for performing string concatenation and it's an overloaded
method.
So there are also other joining methods.
So these methods help in performing predefined reductions.
And so we do not have to use the first version of the method in order to perform such kinds of operations
so they are all predefined.
And in case F these methods do not satisfy your requirement, then you can implement a collector by
yourself.
So we can implement the collector interface and we can implement our own collector.
So that's about it.
Thank you.
And in the subsequent lecture, we are going to explore some of these methods.
And in fact in a series of lectures, we are going to explore most of these methods.
Thank you and see you in the next lecture.